update post "Deploy a .NET Container with AWS ECS Fargate" (#997)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2020-06-22-deploy-dotnet-container-aws-fargate.md

discourse_comment_url: https://devforum.okta.com/t/17258
layout: blog_post
title: "Deploy a .NET Container with AWS ECS Fargate"
author: chase-aucoin
by: contractor
communities: [.net]
description: "This is a tutorial on how to secure your .NET containerized chat app with AWS Fargate and Okta."
tags: [containers, aws, fargate, c-sharp, csharp, dotnet, dot-net, asp-dot-net, vuejs]
tweets:
  - "Ever messed with AWS Fargate? Learn how to authenticate users to your #dotnetcore #container hosted in #aws ->."
  - "Unsure about #containerized #dotnet with #Fargate in #AWS? We've got a primer just waiting for you ->"
  - "Learn how to create secure .NET #containers in #AWS with Fargate ->"
image: blog/featured/okta-dotnet-mouse-down.jpg
type: conversion
changelog:
  - 2021-12-07: Updated the post to use .NET SDK CLI, latest Okta Admin Console and VueJS 3. Update to work with TLS. Changes to this article can be viewed in [oktadev/okta-blog#997](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-blog/pull/997). Changes to the example application can be viewed in [oktadev/okta-dotnetcore-aws-fargate-example#1](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-dotnetcore-aws-fargate-example/pull/1).
---

> In the last article I wrote, we learned [how to host a serverless .NET application using AWS Lambda](/blog/2020/06/08/serverless-lambda-functions-csharp). In the article, we talked about the history of serverless and how companies are using these types of technology to simplify delivering APIs and functionality faster than traditional methods. Some problems will arise in this type of application when you need more capability than your standard HTTP requests like GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc. A great example of this is Web Sockets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the last article I wrote, we learned [how to host a serverless .NET application using AWS Lambda](/blog/2020/06/08/serverless-lambda-functions-csharp). We talked about the history of serverless and how companies are using these types of technology to simplify delivering APIs and functionality faster than traditional methods. Some problems will arise in this type of application when you need more capability than your standard HTTP requests like GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc. Web Sockets is a great example of this.
```
conciseness, avoiding passive voice

{% include toc.md %}

## Understanding Containers vs. Virtual Machines

> Around 2013, [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) was released, and with it began a shift in how we think about hosting applications and managing infrastructure. Infrastructure teams and operations have been leveraging Virtual Machines with great success for decades, so you may be tempted to think, "isn't this just a virtual machine?" In spirit, yes, in application no.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Around 2013, [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) was released, beginning a shift in how we think about hosting applications and managing infrastructure. Infrastructure teams and operations have been leveraging Virtual Machines with great success for decades, so you may be tempted to think, "isn't this just a virtual machine?" In spirit, yes; in application, no.
```
simplifying a strong opening sentence. adding semi-colon to separate the point/counterpoint

> To talk about containers, we have to talk about Virtual Machines. A virtual machine is a virtual representation of a computer all the way from its boot process to loading an entire operating system. This provides a lot of flexibility because you get to have fine-grained control over an entire virtual computer, but it has all the pitfalls of a whole computer as well. The Operating System has to be maintained, patched, and updated; disks have to be managed, and all manner of operational overhead goes into their care and feeding. Notably, they are also huge because an entire OS has to go on them. So when you start a Virtual Machine, you have to go through the entire boot sequence of a traditional computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To talk about containers, we have to talk about Virtual Machines. A virtual machine (VM) is a virtual representation of a computer all the way from its boot process to loading an entire operating system. This provides a lot of flexibility because you gain fine-grained control over an entire virtual computer, but it brings all the pitfalls of a whole computer as well. The operating system has to be maintained, patched, and updated; disks have to be managed, and all manner of operational overhead goes into their care and feeding. Notably, VMs are huge because an entire OS has to go on them. So when you start a virtual machine, you have to go through the entire boot sequence of a traditional computer.
```
small tweaks for conciseness and clarity.

These are the three problem areas that containers hope to solve; Ease of management, size, and speed to start. There are others, but for simplicity, we will focus on those three as I feel (IMHO) they are the most relevant to business processes. Containers differ from a traditional virtual machine in one significant way. They do not have an actual Operating System. This may come as a surprise to you, even if you might have dabbled with containers before. Containers instead have an abstraction of an operating system that provides hooks into the host operating system using standards and conventions supplied by the container system.

> The de facto standard is Docker for all practical purposes, but just for clarity, others do exist. This standardization is where the notion of a container comes from. In shipping, there was no standardization, which made transporting items difficult because you had to figure out how to hold each item on a boat, train, or truck. Containers provided a standard format for transport "you can put whatever you want inside the container so long as it opens this way, can bolt down this way, and are one of these dimensions." this made the logistical process of moving real-world items much more simplified. In this same way, standardizing the way a container interacts with its host OS to delegate the responsibility for executing tasks simplifies management of the most crucial part, the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docker is the de facto container standard for all practical purposes, but other containers exist. This notion of containers for standardization in software development comes from shipping. In shipping, there was no standardization, which made transport difficult because you had to figure out how to hold each item on a boat, train, or truck. Containers provided a standard format for moving goods: "You can put whatever you want inside the container so long as it conforms to a standard set of dimensions and can be opened and bolted down in a uniform way." This simplified the logistical process of moving real-world items. In this same way, standardizing the way a software container interacts with its host OS to delegate responsibility for executing tasks simplifies management of the most crucial part, the application.
```
I think I did something which created a dupe, but I don't want to dedupe, because I'm not savvy enough about how the GH system is working. 

The whole section you added here is excellent. I took the liberty of rearranging/rewriting some of the more complex bits, hopefully without altering or diluting the meaning, making it a little more concise and easy to follow. Please adjust or use as you see fit. TY.
